# 8-1 Portfolio Theory and CAPM

## Portfolio Theory

+ reduce the *standard deviation* of a portfolio by choosing stocks that do not move together.

when measured over a short interval, the past rates of return on any stock conform closely to a normal distribution.

normal distributions can be completely defined by two numbers:
+ the mean or expected value.
+ the variance or standard deviation.

<charts-NormalDist id="1" />

In this chart:
+ A and B
  + have the same *expected* return of `10%`
  + A has the greater spread of possible returns ergo it's more risky than B.
  + the spread can be measured by the standard deviation `std(A) = 15%` `std(B) = 7.5%`
  + most investors would prefer B to A.
+ B and C
  + have the same *standard deviation*
  + C offers a higher expected return.
  + most investors would prefer C to B.


### Efficient Portfolios

::: info Efficient Portfolios
Efficient portfolios are combinations of investments that maximize their overall returns within an acceptable level of risk.
:::

:::tip Finding the best efficient portfolio
With a graph of the efficient portfolios, draw
a line starting at the risk free return $r_f$
and tangent to the portfolio line. The efficient portfolio at the tangency point is better than all the others. it offers the highest *ratio* of risk premium to standard deviation.
:::

<charts-EfficientPortfolios id="1" />


#### Borrowing and Lending

If investors have access to borrowing and lending at the risk-free rate, then the investor can obtain any combination of risk and return **along the tangent line** by either borrowing money which is then invested in the best efficient portfolio(=more risk) or lending money (=less risk).

:::tip example
The best efficient portfolio S has `std=16%`, `r=15%`.

+ Less risk less return strategy:
  + invest half in S
  + lend the rest at the risk-free rate.

$r = \frac{1}{2} \cdot r_S + \frac{1}{2} \cdot r_{bills}$

$=10\%$

$\sigma = \frac{1}{2} \cdot std_S + \frac{1}{2} \cdot std_{bills}$

$=8\%$

+ More risk more return strategy:
  + borrow initial amount.
  + invest all in S

$r = 2 \cdot r_S - 1 \cdot \text{interest rate}$

$=25\%$

$\sigma = 2 \cdot std_S - 1 \cdot std_{bills}$

$=8\%$
:::

::: info Sharpe Ratio
The ratio of the risk premium to standard deviation. the best efficient portfolio has the highest sharpe ratio.

$$\text{Sharpe ratio} = \frac{\text{Risk premium}}{\text{standard deviation}} = \frac{r - r_f}{\sigma}$$
:::