# 7-4 How Individual Insecurities Affect Portfolio Risk
:::theorem Remember
_The risk of a well-diversified portfolio depens on the market risk of the securities included in the portfolio._
:::

## 🅱️ Market Risk Is Measured by Beta
It is not a good practice to measure risky a security is if held in isolation. You need to measure its _market risk_. You do this by measuring how sensitive it is to market movements. This sensitivity is called **beta $β$**.

+ **Beta > 1.0** -> amplify the overall movements of the market
+ **0 < beta < 1.0** -> move in the same direction as the market, but not as far. 

The market is the portfolio of all stocks, so the "_average_" stock has beta = 1.0

Many of the stocks with high standard deviations also have high betas, but this is not always the case.

## ⁉️ Why Security Betas Determince Portfolio Risk
:::theorem Review
+ Market risk accounts for most of the risk of a well-diversified portfolio.
+ The beta of an individual security measures its sensitivity to market movements.
:::

### In a portfolio context, a security's risk is measured by beta.

Better diversification makes the portfolio risk declines untill all specific risk is eliminated and only the _bedrock_ of market risk remains.

The bedrock depends on the average beta of the securities selected.

:::theorem Portfolio beta 1.0
+ portfolio containg 500 stocks drawn randomly from the market
    + results in a portfolio **very** similar to the whole market. So beta is 1.0
+ standard deviation of the market is 20%
    + so portfolio standard deviation is 1.0 x 20% = 20%
:::

:::theorem Portfolio beta 1.5
+ portfolio containing 500 stocks with virtually no specific risk
    + beta of the portfolio is 1.5
+ standard deviation of the market is 20%
    + so portfolio standard deviation is 1.5 x 20% = 30%
    + portfolio will amplify every market move by 50%
    + portfolio with 150% of the market's risk
:::

**Calculating Beta**
:::tip Beta of stock i
+ $\sigma_{im}$ = covariance between stock returns and market returns
+ $\sigma_m^2$ is variance of the return on the market

$\beta_i = \sigma_{im} / \sigma_m^2$
:::
