# Measuring the Cost of Equity
## After-tax Weighted-Average Cost of Capital
The cost of debt is always less than the cost of equity. The WACC formula blends the two
costs. The formula is dangerous, however, because it suggests that the average cost of capital could
be reduced by substituting cheap debt for expensive equity. It doesn’t work that way. 

:::warning Adding debt
As the debt ratio D/V increases, the cost of the remaining equity also increases, offsetting the
apparent advantage of more cheap debt.
:::

Debt does have a tax advantage, however, because interest is a tax-deducible expense. That is why
we use the after-tax cost of debt in the after-tax WACC. 

## Asset beta
The after-tax WACC depends on the average risk of the company’s assets, but it also depends on
taxes and financing. It’s easier to think about project risk if you measure it directly. The direct
measure is called the **asset beta**.

Calculating an asset beta is similar to calculating a weighted-average cost of capital. The debt and
equity weights D/V and E/V are the same. The asset beta is an estimate of the average risk of a
business.

When estimating the true beta we use past data. We set up a confidence interval ussing the standard error to estimate an indivdual assets beta. Although there almost always is a large margin of error the estimation errors tend to cancel out when you estimate betas of portfolios.

Only a portion of each stock’s total risk comes from movements in the market. The rest
is firm-specific, diversifiable risk.